---
title: Widgets
type: docs
weight: 6
draft: true
# prev: /
# next: docs/folder/
---

Widgets are dynamic UI elements that plugins can provide to improve their user experience.
A widget can be something simple like a text box or more complicated like a button that updates
the state of a goal.

Widgets are defined by a JSON like data structure. This definition contains the following:

- The layout of the widget. This can be generated completely dynamically by an expr expression or
  defined as a JSON object with some dynamic elements.
- Context type. This is the context in which the widget is expected to run.
- A bound javascript function: This is a JS function that the widget can call to perform state updates
  or other actions such as fetch resources from the internet.
- Initial state. An expr expression that generates the initial state of a widget
- Properties. A schema that defines values that should be passed into the widget

Widget data
- `props`: A properties object. This is defined by the properties schema. It gets set once during 
  initialization and is immutable.
- `ctx`: This object is generated based on the declared context type for the widget. It contains
  information about the location where the widget is being rendered.
    - Data Source Context: includes the data source ID that can be used to look up data from the
      source in the `data` object as well as the data source configuration.
    - Condition Context: includes the ID of the condition, the configuration of the condition and
      a map of the data sources that the condition is using.
- `data`: This is the same data object that gets sent to condition expressions.
- `state`: This object is initialized by the init_state expression and can be mutated via actions.
  Mutating state will result in a re-render of the widget. The state object isn't validated by a
  schema unless the widget is bound to a javascript function.

Context Definition:

The context definition tells Digital Carrot what objects the widget can belong to. This definition
contains two pieces of information:
- The type of object that the widget should bind to (data source, condition etc.)
- An optional set of allowed instances that the widget can bind to (ex: only conditions generated by
  a specific quickstart) 

A widget's context can be declared as one of the following:
- Data Source: requires the ID of the data source that the widget is for.
- Condition: optionally requires a list of quickstart IDs that the widget is for.


Widgets: 
- Text
- row
- icon
- timer
- list
- JSONForm
- Router
- Markdown
- Container
- DataCard

Actions:
- set_state
- submit_form
- refresh_data_source

Creating Widgets:
- Dynamic
- Static

Concepts:
- State Management
- Context
- Javascript Functions
